This lecture provides just a couple of
ideas of how to make a good data analysis
presentation.
There are a couple of key components that
I feel like are important to making a good
presentation that involves data analysis,
and so I thought I would just
list a couple of them here.
Just so
you can kind of keep them in mind and
think about them the next time you're
making your next presentation.
So, the first and I think the most
important thing you want to have in
a presentation is to state the question
that you're trying to answer.
I can't tell you how many times
I've been in a presentation and
we've been ten minutes in and
I still don't exactly know what question
this person is trying to answer.
Okay.
So, it's important, upfront, that you not
assume that everyone is on the same page,
that everyone has the same background,
but to state the question clearly and
succinctly so
that everyone knows what the goal is.
Okay.
And once everyone knows what the goal is,
we could all be kind of on the same page
and oriented towards achieving that goal.
Okay.
So stating the question
is very important from
the get go in a presentation.
Secondary to that, you might want to
describe what type of question it is that
you're trying to answer if it's
not immediately obvious, okay.
So remember that we have the six types
of questions that you can try to ask.
And so it's useful to the audience
sometimes to know if you're trying to
ask an inferential question versus
a causal one, versus a predictive one.
That can help to inform any discussion
that may occur afterward in terms of
improving your analysis or modifying it.
Another thing that I like to do that I
think is very useful is to show the data.
Okay.
It's often helpful or
tempting to just show summaries, or you
just kind of just not even data summaries,
but just kind of summaries in
words of what the results are.
But it's actually very
useful to show the data.
But just as a warning though,
this could be a double edged sword.
Because people like to talk
about data when they see it.
So if you want people to have good
discussion, to have informed discussion
that may be useful to you,
I think it's very useful to show the data.
People love to talk about data, but, so
even if you don't want that discussion to
happen necessarily, you may be better
off in the end if it does happen.
And so to this extent,
I find plots are better than tables,
because plots show people, you know,
a summary of the data, but
they also show people deviations
from what might be expected, and so
plots are very useful for
kind of producing discussion and
kind of encouraging people
to think about the data.
When it's possible, if you're making a
presentation and you're showing the data,
if you're showing some summary or
a statistic about the data,
try to show a measure of
uncertainty to go with it.
And the reason why is it just provides for
a richer discussion when you can
incorporate the uncertainty
into any predictions or
any estimates that you make from the data.
And so, try to have a broad array
of measures of uncertainty so
that people can get the full picture
of what's going on in your analysis.
So for example, if you have a primary
model, it can be used to show results for
say, a bunch of secondary models or to
show confidence intervals for parameters.
Lastly, I think it's important that when
you present results from a data analysis,
that you separate three things,
they are the evidence,
the interpretation and the decision.
Okay?
It's often easy to kind of conflate
all these things into one sentence or
to one statement and
I think it helps people to
provide a useful discussion
if you can separate them out.
So for example, if you're looking at,
let's say, an air pollutant and
some health outcome, you might find that
the increase in the air pollutant results,
you estimate that
an increase in the air pollutant results
in a 5% increase in the health outcome.
So that's bad.
So maybe the health outcome is mortality.
So, an increase in the pollutant results
in a five percent increase in mortality.
So that's the evidence,
that is the result of your analysis.
You estimated some parameter and
that was the result, and
maybe there's a competence level that
you can present around that too.
So, the interpretation might be,
okay air pollution is bad for you, okay,
and then the decision might be we
need to lower air pollution levels in
whatever environment we're thinking about.
So there's three separate components there
that all could be evaluated independently.
Given a set of evidence,
you're interpretation might be that,
oh if it's only 5% maybe air
pollution's not so bad for you.
Or it might be 5% and it's terrible.
But your interpretation can be
made separate from the evidence
that's provided.
And further more, what you do about it is
further separate from what you think about
it, how you interpret it,
and what the evidence is.
So, separating the evidence,
the interpretation, and
the decision can help people think
about the different components.
And can weigh the evidence, in terms
of how they would react differently or
how important that evidence is to
whatever process they're involved in.
So, I think doing that provides for
a useful presentation and provides for
a more important, a useful discussion
about the meaning of your results and
what we should do about them.